Emerging technologies such as Data Analysis, Artificial Intelligence, IOT and Machine Learning have not only changed the business dynamics but have been generating an exponential volume of data. For many purposes, such as streaming a live sporting event, tracking a developing storm, testing new products, or analyzing stock trends, the ability to process data in real time is crucial. To keep a step ahead in this competition organisations need lightining fast and highly reliable IT infrastruture to process, store and analyze masssive amounts of data i.e., High performance computing(HPC). HPC is the ability to process data and perform complex calculations at high speeds. To put it into perspective, a laptop or desktop with a 3 GHz processor can perform around 3 billion calculations per second while a HPC solution can perform quadrillions of calculations per second.

Enterprises are adopting HPC for various use cases. For instance Timex group is using hpc to build photorealistic 3D rendering models in cloud which enables visualization of new watch designs quickly whereas medical centers are using them for advance imaging in surgeries, and banking facilities are embedding them for proper risk analysis. This has risen the demand for HPC platforms and many enterprises such as IBM, Google, ARM, Intel, Nvidia, AMD, nimbix are investing huge in developing HPC platforms. For instance, Nvidia provides HPC SDK toolkit enabling organisations and software developers to develop HPC applications with pre-built libraries. Ziff Inc., even transforms the uses of high-performance computing by creating deep learning as a service in cloud thereby reducing man power(data scientist and building own HPC infrastructure). Boeing used HPC modeling and simulation in may desgn areas for its new, highly successful boeing 787 dreamliner aircraft.HPC gave 7 times more efficient result than previously developed Boeing 777 plane. Whirpool saved millions of dollars by redesigning packaging materials and even the clamps used by firms distributions by modeling and simulating data through HPC models. HPC gives wal-mart the capacity to manage its store widwide from its headquarters. All this applications and evolution of HPC confirms that it is a proven game-changing technology.
Software developers are learning new HPC skills to keep up with the pace and grow along with Growing HPC tools. They are dealing with very large quantities of data along with high-performing CPUs and GPUs, Fabric architectures, High bandwidth networking architectures and new softwares. Various sites such as academia, HPC today etc., host abudant information and published papers on HPC growth. Along with this various communities are being held such as Intel's HPC forum, AMD's HPC user Forum to exchange the information about evolving HPC systems.

